Based on Data from a Chartered Accountants' Company Secretaries and other professional bodies and groups.
 
FM said during her budget speech that we are largely a tax *'non- compliant'* society and presented that only *3.7 Crores* are filing ITRs in this poor country of 125 Crore population.

The reply by CAs , CSs, CMAs is given below:-

Madam,
We have 82 Crore Voters out of which,
75% are Agriculturists/Farmers i.e. 61.5 Crores (You exempted them straightaway, but they can also buy cars , bungalows etc. as you quoted.. Your political colleagues, who called themselves agriculturist/farmers, are also enjoying this exemption)

Balance remains, 20.5 Crores

Less:24% BPL Class (Below poverty line)

Means 15 Crore population (who are non-agriculturist and non-BPL).

Less: Non-working wives, unemployed youths, below-taxable income earners, political class (say 75%), in a typical indian family only 1 earning member and 5 or 6 are dependent on him.

Balance: 15 -11.25 = 3.75 Crores, is the earning class which can file ITRs and they are already filing ITRs.

So almost no gap as FM is stressing unnecessarily without knowing well her country.
m MmM
If FM wants more people to come into tax net, then, instead of foolishly resorting to rampant raids, surveys, notices, scrutiny, demonetisations etc., viewed as *tax evasion/terrorism* and should defy her negative bureaucrats.
Some suggestions are:-

1). Introduce Income Tax on Agricultural Income on large landlords (Say 10 Acres plus), this way, you can add 26% of Agriculturists as tax payers (Politicians are also enjoying this exemption).
\2). Instead of introducing 5000/10000 penalties on late filers of IT return,m
      kk   ,,nmmbnbbbbbbb v bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb  b  ̣ji,mllmm.l l nml  , ,m,
'

nbN 
m,m   mnnn        
mM

3). Introduce Priv                                                                

ilege Card to those paying taxes above certain limit. Privilege Card to entitle assessee with benefits like Priority quota in railway tickets, use of airport lounges, subsidised medical facilities, etc. and let Tax Payers feel proud.

4). Introduce medical insurance/life insurance on basis of average ITR filled, like coverage upto twice of Gross Income in ITR filed for mediclaim and ten times risk cover in case of life insurance.

5). Introduce Pension after 65 Years of age on the basis of tax paid by tax payer during his/her working life.

Let honest taxpayers get certain direct benefits.

As on today, 3.3% of Indian population is filing ITRs as compared to 8% of China.

Adding big Agriculturists/Farmers to Income Tax may shoot the figure to more than 10%. It may help you to cool your tax evasion/terrorism mindset and a tax compliant nation.

LET'S SPREAD THIS TO EDUCATE HONEST TAX PAYERS.The big myth on Income Tax Payers in IndiaThe big myth on Ivfd65u5uuXCZccCC?"Ccc xncome Tax Payers in India	



#### Todays new normal

Hi,

The new true fact!!! 

The last 12 to 18 months have been a difficult time for the likes of Bansal, who had become used to big pay hikes and bonuses, and lavish spending, when the industry was growing at 30% annually. That story may be unravelling. Last year, the IT industry grew barely 10% (compared with 19% two years ago) and hired 200,000 people, 20% less than two years ago.

Anecdotal evidence suggests that employees are taking longer than companies to adjust to the 'new normal'. "People used to think that it is easy to become wealthy in the IT industry and over-commit based on this assumption," says Srinivas Kandula, HR chief for the 28,000-strong iGate. "They have now seen friends and colleagues struggle and today everyone wants to be cautious." Employees too need to adjust to this changed landscape.

The industry has been caught in the midst of a two-phase transformation. One, it is pursuing non-linear opportunities, which require fewer employees and is causing companies to go slow on hiring. Second, as it struggles in a global slowdown with reduced spends, it is paying employees smaller hikes. For example, industry leader TCS will pay offshore increments of 7%, a long way from the days of robust double-digit hikes. Others such as HCL Technologies, the fifth-largest player, have actually decreased their overall headcount over the past year as the business model has taken hold.

"Earlier, employees looked at IT jobs as an entitlement - you do an engineering course and are assured of a job," says Som Mittal, president of Nasscom, the industry grouping. "That's no longer the case. Technology changes are rapid. There are newer opportunities in data analytics, cloud services, mobility and plenty of new jobs that require new skills. Employees need to re-skill and evolve."

Deferred gratification
As they struggle with this re-invention, they are putting consumption on the backburner. Manish Advani, 36, a project manager, used to eat out eight times a month, spending Rs 18,000-20,000. Now, it's down to four times a month, spending about Rs 12,000. While he is keen to upgrade his five-year-old Chevrolet Aveo, Advani says, he won't rush the decision, given the tough business environment.

For Sabrina Sharma and her husband Arjun Sharma (she with a leading IT services company and he with a travel portal), this summer holiday might be at a drivable destination from Gurgaon, not an overseas one. "In 2008 it was Johannesburg, 2010 was in Mauritius, 2012 was in London. Now, at most to Goa or more likely something that is drivable from Gurgaon," says Arjun.

"International airfares have gone up (almost 30% in the past one year), increments are down and there's no talk of performance bonuses. We are already eating out less, and with an EMI of Rs 60,000 to pay for a property bought two years back, if either of us gets the pink slip, we'll be at sea."

In Bangalore, consumer-facing brands are struggling to shore up sales as consumers desert stores and defer purchases. There's been a glut in supply too, with around 1.8-2 million square feet of new retail space. With fewer people visiting malls, rentals have fallen 13%-43% in some areas in Bangalore, according to Cushman and Wakefield, a real estate consultancy.

According to Asipac, another real estate consultancy, Bangalore will have 27.6 million square feet of operating space, an oversupply of 141% over the next two years. Hyderabad, too, is facing a supply glut, with 18.9 million sq ft of mall space, leading to a potential 114% oversupply by 2014. As a result, in the next year or so, rentals are expected to climb as little as 4% in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Chennai.

In Bangalore, Whitefield, one of the oldest hubs for the IT industry, for example, had just one mall until recently. Today, there are around four and the strain is beginning to tell. Even on the traditional high streets of Bangalore, brands have moved out, faced with lower sales.

Companies feel the pinch
This fear is silently reverberating across IT hubs in Bangalore, Gurgaon and Hyderabad - and trickling down the chain. Hotels and restaurants are reporting thinner attendance, malls lower footfalls and realtors are finding it tougher to get customers. The IT worker was once a prime customer for the local realty broker. No longer.

Says Vikas Bhargava of Iris Realty Services, a real estate broker in Gurgaon: "Overall (property) transactions have dropped by 40% in the past one year. Speculators lifted the market beyond sustainable levels. Genuine buyers are there now, but at such high costs (a 3BHK for about Rs 1.5 crore in central locations) and jobs uncertain, there are very few buyers." Investors who made purchases just two years back also want to exit for two reasons - little appreciation in value and difficulty in paying steep EMIs.

As the affluence of real estate buyers from the IT industry has waned, so has their influence on the market. In his office in Ulsoor in central Bangalore, Ashish Purvankara, joint managing director of Purvankara Properties, says that today, barely 37% of his business comes from clients in the IT sector in Bangalore, compared with nearly 70% three or four years ago. While other sectors such as engineering and manufacturing have picked up some of this slack, there is a slowdown in the air - there's a rush to buy budget housing from its Provident Housing unit and sales are sedate in the crore-plus market.

As companies hold back on hikes and incomes are strained, it is the heavy purchases such as real estate that are the worst hit. Amit Bansal, 37, sales head with an IT-telecom services company in Mumbai, put together money to buy a house, but has now deferred it. "I'm not certain about the future. And I do come across lot of distress sales - people who bought property in the past three or four years, who are now willing to sell at original price as they need the cash," he says. "Besides, I can't risk a high EMI. I will wait for another two years."


Coming down from a high
Over the past two decades, the outsourcing sector has been a sponge for engineers, hiring about half of the 400,000-odd engineers who graduate annually. As the industry has grown from over $6 billion in 2002 to over $110 billion in 2012, the industry has hired thousands of engineers, paying them generously (and training them for weeks) to keep the wheels running smoothly.

Entry-level software engineers were paid as much as 50%-100% more than their peers in other industries. "The IT industry expanded the consumption basket from six basic goods (with a chunk of it in real estate) to some 20 items," says Bisen of Technopak. "In the past two years, with slowing growth and a squeeze on margins, people in the IT industry have begun to reduce and downgrade their consumption."

J Suresh, managing director of Arvind Retail, clearly sees this trend within his portfolio. For one, the business of Megamart, Arvind's budget apparel chain, has flourished as other brands have declined by at least 2%-3% in key IT hubs. "We opened 150 in the past year and will open only 100 this year," he says. "Bangalore has been clearly hit by this consumption crunch." Despite this, Megamart's sales have grown, as consumers alter their buying preferences in lean times.

In Bangalore, Manu Chandra, the founder of restaurants such as Monkey Bar and LikeThatOnly, has had a ringside view of this decline. As techies cut back on consumption, he says there has been a 15%-20% drop in sales across restaurants in Bangalore. Coupled with other factors such as high rents and soaring costs of staple food items, this has been bad news for restaurateurs: a dozen or more joints, including Sunny's in Indiranagar, Manchester United Bar and one of the outlets of Tangerine, an upscale continental restaurant, shutting shop in the last year. "There has been a clear decline in bookings from the IT crowd... and without strong volumes, it's hard to build a profitable business," Chandra says.

 
